Jordan Brindza
HW3 - BoomBlox
CIS 563


I implemented the Sweep and Prune algorithm for the broad phase collision detection.
Unfortunately, the choices I made in the implementation turned out not to be the greatest 
and the speedup I get from the sweep and prune is not very large. In an environment with
1,600 objects over a period of 100 frames the Sweep and Prune approach took 306,666 ticks 
while the naive approach too 314,095 ticks, a 3% increase in speed.


1. In class, we talked about problems with contact processing stacks of objects.
Naively, you would have to do many iteractions to resolve contact problems with
stacks. How does shock propagation help solve this problem? 

	Shock propagation helps by forcing the contact model to converge and reducing 
	total number of iterations required to process it. The shock propagation iterates
	through contact graph starting with the lower levels, after each level is processed 
	the objects in that level are set to have an infinite mass and become unmovable by
	higher level objects. This way higher level objects cannot cause lower level objects to 
	go back into collision.

2. Explain the trade-offs encountered between a bounding sphere and using the
convex hull? 

  The bounding sphere has the advantage of being quicker to compute possible
  collisions between objects then using the convex hull. However, the convex
  hull is a better approximation of the objects actual shape so it has less
  false positive, possible collisions when used. 

  Another downside to the convex hall is that it is difficult to compute for
  arbitrary objects, but it is only an initial time investment at the beginning
  of the simulation and the convex halls can be cached.

3. Can you theorize a better way to pick the best sweep directions in SaP(sweep
and prune), talked about in class? We have assumed in class we will just naively
use the three coordinate axes as the sweep direction. But in general this gives
a poor result.

	You could use a change of basis to transform the object coordinates into a new
	basis that better represents the data. The new basis can be found using 
	Princible Component	Anaylsis. Using this basis will result in less false positives
	requiring a narrow phase collision check.

	The downside of this is that the PCA computation does take a long time so you 
	would not want to compute a new basis every instance of the simulation.

4. How would you combine particles and rigid bodies to simulate granular
particles such as sand or dust? Granular particles exhibit both rigid body and
particle properties so a naive SPH implmenetation would not look realistic out
of the box.

	