Jordan Brindza CIS 563 - Smoke Simulation
I am using 1 late day.

I implemented all the base parts of the assignment. I attempted to do the cubic
interpolation but there is not working correctly.

The program compiles under MCVS 2010 in the moore labs

1)  Describe the difference between Lagrangian and Eulerian viewpoints for
    simulation.  Why is the approach used in this assignment called Semi-Lagragian?

  The Eulerian approach discritizes the world into a grid and then measures fluid
  statistics for each grid cell by observing the fluid traveling through it. The 
  Lagrangian approach treats the fluid like a particle system.

  Our approach is called a semi-Lagrangian because we use a discretized world
  for storing the fluid properties but treat the cells as particles for
  computing the velocity updates.


2)  Smoke and water can both be simulated with fluids.  Briefly explain how they
    are similar and how they are different.  

  Smoke and water simulation are similar in that they both satisfy the
  Navier-Stokes equations for fluids.

  They are different because water has a well defined surface that does not
  exist in smoke. The boundary between air and the fluid for water needs to be
  maintained. This can be done with using marker particles or level sets with
  the grid based approach.


3)  List one advantage and one disadvantage to simulating our fluid on a grid.
    Describe two other techniques for simulating fluids and the advantages and
    disadvantages of each.

  One advantage to using a grid is that it makes computing the material
  derivates much easier than it would be in a particle based system. A big
  disadvantage to the grid is the computation and memory required to maintain
  it. There are also artifacts created by the grid discritization.

  One other technique is to use height fields. This technique is very efficient
  and can be done in real time and is very easy to implement. However, height
  fields require additional particle system for dealing with droplets/areas of
  the fluid that break away increasing its complexitiy. 
  
  Another technique is to use a fully particle based system. These are good for
  simulating splashes or streams of fluids. The do not scale well for large
  areas of water and computing the interactions between the particles is
  computationally intensive.

